---
layout: news
title: Eclipse Vorto 0.9 is available now
date: 2017-02-02
section: news
---

{% include base.html %}

We are happy to announce the release of Eclipse Vorto 0.9. It is available on <a href="https://github.com/eclipse/vorto" target="_blank">Github</a>. The release details are described below: <br>

**Deliverables:**

- Describe the characteristics and functionality of devices as Information Models, share them with others and generate code with the Eclipse Vorto Toolset
- Browse and search information models in the Vorto Repository
- Integrate devices into platforms easily with the help of platform specific code generators, for example Bosch, AWS, ThingWorx, etc.
- A Command Line Interface Tool lets you explore information models, share new information models as well as generate code directly on the Vorto Repository server

**Compatibility:**

The Code Generator API has been completely re-designed and is incompatible with the initial contribution.

**Target Environments:**

This release requires a Java SE 8 JVM. It has been tested on OracleJDK 8.

**Themes:**

**Vorto Toolset** 
   	<br>
		With the IoT Eclipse Vorto Toolset, you can describe the characteristics and functionality of devices as Information Models, share them with others and generate code with the help of Code Generators.

**Vorto Repository**
   <br>
	    The Vorto repository manages your device descriptions (Information Models). Users are able to search device characteristics and device functionality.

**Code Generator API**
   <br>
		Vorto Code Generators convert an Information Model into executable code that is specific for the platform. Every generator translates the platform independent information model into a platform model and lastly source code. The Vorto Code Generator API lets you plug in your own code generator into the toolset.

**Example Code Generators**
	<br>
		Many example code generators illustrate the many possibilities of how code generators can be effectively used. They can also be taken as a code reference to implement your own generator with the Generator API.